RHDEVDOCS-2796: Access-PipelineRun-TaskRun-Logs-in-OpenShift-Cluster-Logging (#36023)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-viewing-pipeline-logs-in-kibana.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// cicd/pipelines/viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator.adoc
//

[id="op-viewing-pipeline-logs-in-kibana_{context}"]
= Viewing pipeline logs in Kibana

> 

Reviewer: It is recommended that you have an intro sentence before the procedure itself.

.Procedure

> You view pipeline logs in the Kibana web console:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view pipeline logs in the Kibana web console:
```

> . Log in to *Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform* as a cluster administrator, or a user with equivalent permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to *Red Hat {product-title}* as a cluster administrator, or a user with equivalent permissions.
```

> . Log in to *Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform* as a cluster administrator, or a user with equivalent permissions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Log in to {product-title} as a cluster administrator, or as a user with equivalent permissions.
```

Use attributes where possible for consistency with the rest of docs.
Re "or as a user with equivalent permissions" - is this possible? I would just keep it as cluster administrator but maybe there's some option in between I don't know about? I feel like mentioning this will lead users to question, what permissions do I need?

> . Log on to *Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform* as a cluster administrator, or an user with equivalent permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Log in to *Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform* as a cluster administrator or a user with equivalent permissions.
```

.. In the top right of the menu bar, click the *grid* icon → *Observability* → *Logging*. The Kibana web console is displayed.

. On the left navigation panel of the *Kibana* web console, click *Management*.
.. Click *Create index pattern*.

> .. Under *Step 1 of 2: Define index pattern* → *Index pattern*, enter a *`*`* pattern and click *Next Step*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Under *Step 1 of 2: Define index pattern* → *Index pattern*, enter a *`pass:[*]`* pattern and click *Next Step*.
```

> . On the left navigation panel of the *Kibana* web console, click *Management*.
> .. Click *Create index pattern*.
> .. Under *Step 1 of 2: Define index pattern* → *Index pattern*, enter a *`pass:[*]`* pattern and click *Next Step*.
> .. Under *Step 2 of 2: Configure settings* → *Time filter field name*, select *@timestamp* from the drop-down menu, and click *Create index pattern*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Create an index pattern:
.. On the left navigation panel of the *Kibana* web console, click *Management*.
.. Click *Create index pattern*.
.. Under *Step 1 of 2: Define index pattern* → *Index pattern*, enter a *`pass:[*]`* pattern and click *Next Step*.
.. Under *Step 2 of 2: Configure settings* → *Time filter field name*, select *@timestamp* from the drop-down menu, and click *Create index pattern*.
```

Suggestion for slight reorganization here so that the task is called out at the beginning of the step

> . On the left navigation panel of the *Kibana* web console, click *Discover*.
> .. Click *Add a filter +* → *Edit Query DSL*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Add a filter:
.. On the left navigation panel of the *Kibana* web console, click *Discover*.
.. Click *Add a filter +* → *Edit Query DSL*.
```
Similar suggestion to make it clear what the aim of the step is

+
[NOTE]
====
* For each of the example filters that follows, edit the query and click *Save*.
* The filters are applied one after another.
====
+
... Filter the containers related to pipelines:
+
.Example query to filter pipelines containers

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,json]
```

----
{
  "query": {
	"match": {
  	"kubernetes.flat_labels": {
    	"query": "app_kubernetes_io/managed-by=tekton-pipelines",
    	"type": "phrase"
  	}
	}
  }
}
----
+

> ... Filter all containers that are _not_ `place-tools` container. As an illustration of using the graphical drop-down menus instead of editing the query DSL, consider the following approach:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
... Filter all containers that are not `place-tools` container. As an illustration of using the graphical drop-down menus instead of editing the query DSL, consider the following approach:
```

I don't think _emphasis_ is needed here

+
.Example of filtering using the drop-down fields

> image::../../images/not-placetools.png[Not place-tools]

Reviewer: Image in preview looks squished, maybe recapture?

Author: Reproducing the environment to re-capture the image is quite difficult and time-consuming. In fact, I cropped this image from the one captured by the developer. If needed, I will change the image in the next iteration of this document.

+
... Filter `pipelinerun` in labels for highlighting:
+
.Example query to filter `pipelinerun` in labels for highlighting

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,json]
```

----
{
  "query": {
	"match": {
  	"kubernetes.flat_labels": {
    	"query": "tekton_dev/pipelineRun=",
    	"type": "phrase"
  	}
	}
  }
}
----
+
... Filter `pipeline` in labels for highlighting:
+
.Example query to filter `pipeline` in labels for highlighting

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,json]
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// cicd/pipelines/viewing-pipeline-logs-using-the-openshift-logging-operator.adoc
//

[id="op-viewing-pipeline-logs-in-kibana_{context}"]
= Viewing pipeline logs in Kibana

To view pipeline logs in the Kibana web console:

.Procedure

. Log in to {product-title} web console as a cluster administrator.

> .. In the top right of the menu bar, click the *grid* icon → *Observability* → *Logging*. The Kibana web console is displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. In the top right of the menu bar, click the *grid* icon → *Observability* → *Logging*. The Kibana web console is displayed.
```
I think this should just be a next step instead of a sub-task

. Add a filter:
.. On the left navigation panel of the *Kibana* web console, click *Discover*.
.. Click *Add a filter +* → *Edit Query DSL*.
+
[NOTE]
====
* For each of the example filters that follows, edit the query and click *Save*.
* The filters are applied one after another.
====
+
... Filter the containers related to pipelines:
+
.Example query to filter pipelines containers
[source,json]
----
{
  "query": {
	"match": {
  	"kubernetes.flat_labels": {
    	"query": "app_kubernetes_io/managed-by=tekton-pipelines",
    	"type": "phrase"
  	}
	}
  }
}
----
+
... Filter all containers that are not `place-tools` container. As an illustration of using the graphical drop-down menus instead of editing the query DSL, consider the following approach:
+
.Example of filtering using the drop-down fields
image::../../images/not-placetools.png[Not place-tools]
+
... Filter `pipelinerun` in labels for highlighting:
+
.Example query to filter `pipelinerun` in labels for highlighting
[source,json]
----
{
  "query": {
	"match": {
  	"kubernetes.flat_labels": {
    	"query": "tekton_dev/pipelineRun=",
    	"type": "phrase"
  	}
	}
  }
}
----
+

> ... Filter `pipeline` in labels for highlighting:

Reviewer 3: I think the `+` before each of these `...` steps is causing it to render all as one step?
e.g. "Filter `pipeline` in labels for highlighting:" shows in the preview as part of the above "Filter `pipelinerun` in labels for highlighting:" step

+
.Example query to filter `pipeline` in labels for highlighting
[source,json]
----
{
  "query": {
	"match": {
  	"kubernetes.flat_labels": {
    	"query": "tekton_dev/pipeline=",
    	"type": "phrase"
  	}
	}
  }
}
----
+
.. From the *Available fields* list, select the following fields:
* `kubernetes.flat_labels`
* `message`
+
Ensure that the selected fields are displayed under the *Selected fields* list.
+
.. The logs are displayed under the *message* field.
+
.Filtered messages
image::../../images/filtered-messages.png[Filtered messages]

> +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: No need for this if there's nothing after it
